>> Welcome to session 314.
This is Transitioning to QuickTime X.
My name is Tim Monroe and I will
be joined shortly by Kevin Calhoun.
And we're going to talk to you today about
QuickTime X and some of the other changes
that we have made in QTKit for Snow Leopard.
So I'm just going to make a wild guess that most of
you went to the graphics and media state of the unions.
So you have a good understanding already of what QuickTime X
is and where it fits in to the media architecture on Mac OS.
You already know that it's a new
technology for displaying time-based media.
It is one of the technologies that
has actually migrated back
to the desktop form our devices
such as iPhone, Apple TV, iPod.
It was implemented independent of QuickTime 7.
And you'll see today that it provides some very interesting
and significant improvements over
the current media architecture.
And you also learn that to get the playback
advantages of QuickTime X, you must be using QTKit.
So what are we going to talk about here today?
We're going to spend most of our
time talking about QuickTime X.
So we'll show how to open media so that you can play it
back with QuickTime X, when it makes sense for you to do so,
and also what you give up, what restrictions apply
when you open a movie on the QuickTime X path.
We'll also talk about some issues that
are unrelated to QuickTime X and the one
that is worth mentioning is asynchronous loading.
We've made some very interesting
improvements in QTKit for opening movies
in such a way that you don't block your main thread.
And again, we have some very nice demos that will show
you why you'd be interested in adopting that technology.
Now there are some other API changes in QTKit that
I don't want to spend a lot of time talking about.
So I'll mention them upfront here.
One thing it's possible to do now is to take a single
QTMovie object and display it in more than one view
or more than one layer or some layers and some views.
So the tight connection between a QTMovie object
and its rendering destination has been broken you
could now have a single QTMovie object displayed
in more than one view.
Now because of that, it no longer makes
sense to ask for the current size of a movie.
Why? Because the single movie could
be in different size views.
So we have deprecated the attribute,
QTMovieCurrentSizeAttribute.
What you want to move to is either querying the size
of your rendering destination, the view, or the layer,
or you want to ask for the natural size of the movie.
That is the size at which the movie was authored.
So if you're using current size attribute, move to
natural size attribute or ask the view what it size is.
Now because of that change, we have also
deprecated the QTMovieSizeDidChangeNotification.
And we have replaced that with a new notification,
QTMovieNaturalSizeDidChangeNotification.
Now, you may be wondering how could
be the natural size change.
And one way this could happen is if you have
a streaming movie coming in through the net.
And halfway through it, a new track appears that is larger
than existing tracks or smaller or in anyway different.
And if that happens, you will get this
QTMovieNaturalSizeDidChangeNotification
and you could react to it accordingly.
So let's talk about QuickTime X.
This is what the documentation says
about QTMovie prior to Snow Leopard.
A QTMovie object represents both a
QuickTime movie and a movie controller.
Now you already know that this is no longer true because
you already know that you can play back movies using QTKit
and not accessing the existing QuickTime technologies.
That is to say you'll be accessing QuickTime X.
So if you look at the new documentation for
Snow Leopard, we say something more general,
namely a QTMovie object represents
a playable collection of media data.
This is the pre-Snow Leopard architecture.
You've seen these kind of diagrams before.
QTKit as we just saw, sits right on top
of QuickTime or QuickTime 7 as we now say.
QuickTime 7 consists of a whole bunch of APIs
that are divided into tool boxes and components.
So you have the Movie Toolbox, you
have Movie Controller components.
A little bit lower down, you have Media Handlers
that handle the media in a particular track,
you have some Data Handlers who's responsibility is
to load data from disk or from the net or wherever.
And those QuickTime services, themselves that upon
lower level system services such as the Sound Manager
or more recently we have moved to Core Audio.
It may sit on QuickDraw.
Or again, more recently we're doing things with Core Video.
And originally we use a lot of Carbon.
And now we have moved to Core Foundation.
But they're still in the QuickTime 7 stack,
a mixture of these lower level technologies.
Now when we move to QuickTime X, we have QTKit seating
either on top of QuickTime 7 or on top of QuickTime X.
Now we're not telling you much more about QuickTime
X other than it is a new set of media services
and that those media services are sitting
solely on top of this more modern foundation
such as Core Foundation, Core Video,
Core Audio, Core Animation.
So it's a completely modern stack underneath QuickTime X.
So, new set of media services, it was designed for extremely
efficient playback which I think you can understand
by remembering that it's developed
for the iPhone, Apple TV, and iPod.
It is aggressively multithreaded.
So it will try to fork off threads
whenever it sees that there is something
that deserves happening on a background thread
It is completely 64-bit native when running in 64-bits.stydl7
It is based again, on core Foundation and it
has ColorSync matching throughout the stack.
Now the current set of formats that it supports
are what we call modern linear media formats,
that's stuff like H264 video, AAC audio.
We're not going to give you an exact list
because of course that list will change over time
as QuickTime X learns how to handle
more and more media formats.
And there's a very, very, very simple
API for you to access QuickTime X
in Snow Leopard that I'll talk about in just a minute.
Now there are also some other benefits.
And again, you got a taste of this in
the graphics and media state of the union
where there were four components of QuickTime X.
And QTKit actually automatically takes
advantage of some of those components.
So you don't have to do anything for instance
if your using the existing QTKit capture APIs.
We now use QuickTime X services to
process movies that are captured.
And we also use QuickTime X to do the
color tagging of those captured movies.
Similarly, if you use existing QTKit APIs to
transcode a file, to export it in a new format,
you will automatically take advantage of new
QuickTime X technology if you're exporting
to the various device formats that it supports.
[ Pause ]
>> So, how do you get to use QuickTime X?
Well, you have to ask very nicely when you open a file.
So let's talk for a second about opening a movie file.
Prior to Snow Leopard, the designated initializer
of the QTMovie class was this long winded method
initWithQuickTimeMovie:disposeWhenDone:error:.
Now again, if you realize that we have sort of bifurcated
QTKit so that it stands upon QuickTime 7 or QuickTime X,
you know that this is now a bad
choice as a designated initializer.
Why? For the simple reason that on the QuickTime
X path, you don't have a QuickTime movie.
So there is not one of these capital M movies that
you can pass into this designated initializer.
This was actually already a problem in
Leopard when you are running in 64-bits
because there also the QuickTime
framework is not available in 64-bits.stydlG
So there you couldn't have had a capital M
movie to pass into your designated initializer.
So there was a little bit of a
disconnect there already in Leopard.
So in Snow Leopard, we now we have a new designated
initializer for QTMovie and it is initWithAttributes:error:.
That's an existing method which we have now
promoted to be the designated initializer.
And here I have the instance method
and the class method listed.
Now if you have code that already subclasses
QTMovie by calling initWithMmovie:error:,
initWithMovie:disposeWhenDone:error:, don't worry about it.
We have taken care of it so that your
initializer gets called at the proper time.
But if you are writing new code
and you want to subclass QTMovie,
you should move over to subclassing
initWithAttributes:error:.
So what's the idea with initWithAttributes:error:?
It's very simple.
You pass in a dictionary of key value pairs which
specify attributes that you want this movie to have.
Now there are three general classes of
attributes that you can put in to this dictionary.
The fist class I called data locator attributes.
You got to tell us where the movie data is.
So one of these, is essential.
>> Typically, you'll use the first two,
QTMovieFileNameAttribute or QTMovieURLAttribute.
There are also some other data locator
attributes for more specialized purposes.
There are also movie configuration attributes.
So, if you want the movie to open, say set to be looping,
you could put in a key value pair
that says, QTMovieLoopsAttribute, YES.
You could also open it with a nonstandard
volume if you wanted to.
Or you could make it editable at the time it's opened.
Or you could assign a delegate to it.
Now, what kinds of things can you put
in as movie configuration attributes?
Basically, you can put in any settable
attribute in the QTMovie class.
Now sometimes people send us code and I see that
they put in attributes like QTMovieDurationAttribute.
And this has always puzzled me.
For the simple reason that duration is not
a settable attribute of a QTMovie object.
It's like you went down to your Toyota dealer and
sell I want a Prius with a 120 inch wheel ba se.
Well they don't make them.
The factory makes them at 106 inches.
So that's not a settable configurable
option when you're buying a car.
Similarly when you're opening a QTMovie, you
cannot set the duration to some nonstandard value.
Well how do you know this?
Partly, this is our fault because we haven't been good about
telling you which attributes are settable and which are not.
So we've taken some trouble and we've gone
through and we've header-docked QTMovie.h.
And in particular we've made it very clear
whether a given attribute can be read
and written or read but not written, and so forth.
So here for instance, if you look in QTMovie.h and you
look at the QTMovieDurationAttribute, it says very clearly,
this attribute can be read but it cannot be written.
So that's a clue to you that you don't want to put it
into the dictionary that you pass to initWithAttributes.
The third class of attributes that you could put in to
this dictionary, I call special initialization attributes.
And I won't discus these in detail because we have all that
great header dock which now explains to you what these do.
The one I want to highlight is the
last one which I will come back
and talk about later namely, the OpenAsyncOKAttribute.
Now, how do you get QuickTime X playback capability?
As I said, you ask us nicely and you ask nicely by
passing in a new special initialization attribute
and this is it, QTMovieOpenForPlaybackAttribute.
So you say, and the value of course,
you would pass them would be YES.
So you'll say I want this MovieOpenedForPlayback.
And that is a clue to us, as QTKit, that
you want to go down the QuickTime X path.
So what does that look like in code?
Very simple, you setup an NSDictionary
with the key value pairs that you want.
And in this case, we have specified open for playback,
YES, and this is a clue that we want the QuickTime X path.
[ Pause ]
>> Now, again you heard yesterday that not
all media files can be handled by QuickTime X.
So what happens when you ask us nicely
to play it with QuickTime X and we can't,
we silently fall back to the existing QuickTime 7 path.
You cannot tell whether we are taking the
QuickTime X path or the QuickTime 7 path.
It's not something really that you need to know.
Because you have requested to open a movie for
playback, you are therefore restricted to certain APIs
and certain attributes that apply to playback only.
Again, how do you know which APIs those are?
We signal this in the header dock comments and
QTMovie.h and in particular you get something like this.
This method cannot be called when the movie has been
initialized with QTMovieOpenForPlaybackAttribute set to YES.
And in this case, this is the QuickTime movie method.
So if you say, "well what's the QuickTime
movie associated with this QTMovie?"
If you open this for playback, you
might be going down the QuickTime X path
and so there is no QuickTime movie associated with it.
Similarly, some attributes which you
could otherwise have set are not settable
when you open them on the OpenForPlayback.
And a good example is QTMovieEditableAttribute.
And again, we mark that here by saying, "This attribute
can be read and written but it can be read and not written
when the movie has bee initialized with
QTMovieOpenForPlayback set to YES."
So when you request playback, you are restricted
to certain methods and you're restricted
to not being able to set certain attributes.
So now, let's get a demo of using
QuickTime X to open and playback movies.
>> Alright Tim, we've got an app
here, did you say it was beautiful?
Let's just say, it's conceptually beautiful.
And the concept is to demonstrate the efficiency
of playing back media with QuickTime X.
This application is capable of opening
initializing instances of QTMovie with
or without QTMovieOpenForPlaybackAttributes set to YES.
So let me open a media resource without setting it to YES.
So I will get in this case, the QuickTime 7 behavior.
I've got 720P content here and I've
also got activity monitor running.
[Background music] And when I play this movie which is
not only beautiful conceptually, but beautiful in itself,
you can see at this particular video and audio
requires, well I don't know, between 40 and 50 percent
of the CPU when it is being decoded and played.
Note also, this 64-bit application requires the services
of a 32-bit daemon ap2plication, the QuickTime kit--
the QTKit server application, I'm sorry, process in
order to perform playback on the QuickTime 7 path.
Let's see what the same video looks like
and how much CPU it requires when I,
this time initialize the QTMovie--
setting QTMovieOpenForPlayback to YES.
So open the same media resource, different
instance of QTMovie, this one open for playback.
Also one of the things that I want to note is
that when I open the movie the movie for playback,
this 64-bit application no longer requires
the services of QTKit server, so it goes away.
[Background music] And I can play the very
same media resource on the QuickTime X path,
who's doing the calculation with your iPhone even now,
to determine the improvement in the
number of CPU cycles we require?
So that's it, playback time.
We have a more efficient media stack.
It's available to you and you're
applications when you opt in, its better.
But it's not only better and more
efficient at playback time.
It's also more efficient at other times as well,
for reasons that we're going to be exploring
in quite a bit more depth later in this session.
Other periods at which QuickTime 7 has required
to do some work are not required for QuickTime X.
Let me give you an example of that.
In this case, I'm going to open an
MP3 file, quite a long one actually,
as you can see it's about half a gigabyte of music.
And there's work going on.
I am not playing the content.
I merely just opened it.
But something is going on.
You can see the controller bar filling in
saying, "Now, I've got more media available."
You can see an activity monitor, some amount
of CPU is required even though I haven't
begun a media operation on it yet.
And of course, that amount of CPU will increase
[background music] when I actually play it.
Well what work is going on?
Is it necessary?
I'll say more in a minute.
All I want to mention now is that if I set
QTMovieOpenForPlaybackAttribute to YES,
and the media resource can be opened by
QuickTime X, that kind of work is not necessary.
You can see first of all that the app that I'm running,
the QuickTime X playback demos, requiring no CPU cycles
since I'm not actually doing anything
and you also see QTKit server has quit.
Only when I play back [background music]
are any cycles actually required and fewer.
So there you go, quick idea of the increased
efficiency of the new playback step.
Tim.
[ Applause ]
[ Pause ]
>> Always put the seat down when you're done
[ Laughter ]
[ Inaudible Remark ]
>> So there, certain movies open much faster with less CPU.
And virtually all movies, when they take the
QuickTime X path take less CPU to play back.
So that should be enticing enough as a
reason to be interested in QuickTime X.
So let's talk about asynchronous loading now.
We have documented fairly clearly that when you open
a QTMovie object you want to do it on the main thread.
This is really a limitation that derives
from QuickTime but it's something
that we've documented and talked about here at WWDC.
Now it turns out that lots of things
need to go on to open some movies
and you don't want then blocking the main thread.
Well QuickTime already has some capabilities
of being able to background some of that work.
For instance, some data handlers are smart enough to fork
off a thread and load their data on a background thread.
So even without the new capabilities
we've added in Snow Leopard,
there is some asynchronous work
being done in certain circumstances.
>> What we have done QuickTime or in Snow Leopard is add
new services that allow us to be even more aggressive
at moving things off of the main
thread onto background threads.
So it's a new service provided by QTKit in Snow Leopard.
And basically, it is your way of telling us, do
everything possible to avoid blocking the main thread.
So that means that we should try to load
movie data on a background thread if possible.
And if that isn't possible, I want you to fail.
I want you to return an error letting me know as
the developer that my request was not honored.
How do we do this?
Again, there's a special initialization
attribute that you put
in to the dictionary when you call initWithAttributes:error.
And this particular attribute is called
QTMovieOpenAsyncRequiredAttribute.
So you're saying, "I require you
to open this asynchronously."
And again, the code that you would write in order
to use that is identical to what we showed before.
It's just a different attribute that we're passing in.
[ Pause ]
>> Now when you open a movie asynchronously, you will get
back a non-nil QTMovie instance, virtually immediately.
However, there could be a lot of work that needs to happen
in order to load that movie to the point that you can ask
about its properties or start playing it back
or export it or whatever you want to do with it.
So you must monitor what we call movie load states.
These are movie load states.
They're just integers that indicate that a certain
level in the loading of movie data has occurred.
And the very top one is interesting,
it says, LoadStateError.
So that way you know something
went wrong in loading the movie.
It couldn't be loaded.
You should just toss the movie away.
And the other ones we'll talk about in more detail later,
but they indicate various levels
in the loading of movie data.
How do you monitor a movie load state?
The absolute easiest way is to register for
the QTMovieLoadStateDidChangeNotification.
And in this case, I'm using normal NSNotificationCenter
method to install a notification handler.
In this case, it's called "LoadStateChanged."
So when QTKit signals my application at the
LoadStateChanged, it will call my LoadStateChanged method.
And in this case, I have a very
simple LoadStateChanged method.
All I'm doing is grabbing the movie from the
notification object and passing that movie
to another method that my application has defined.
And the reason I'm dong this will be clear in just a second.
And here's what the real guts of my
monitoring movie load states might look like.
At the very top, I call the attribute for key
to find the QTMovieLoadstateAttribute to sort
of find out what the current load state is.
And then I just want to go through the various
possibilities that are of interest to my application.
So here, I'm handling the LoadStateError,
actually I just have some dots there.
We'll fill that in a second.
And the second clause is more interesting.
If I get to LoadStateLoaded, I know that it's now
safe to query movie properties and to do things
like attach the movie to a view so that
it can be displayed and played back.
[ Pause ]
>> Now it turns out to that when
you call initWithAttributes:error:,
it's possible that you never receive
a LoadStatechanged notification.
That's because the movie could immediately go to
the top load state that it's ever going to achieve.
So immediately after I call initWithAttributes:error:,
I probably want to make a call to my own method
with that movie just so that any work is done when I've
achieved a certain load state and then I can still register
to listen for the notification if I want to.
So what about Asynchronous Loading?
Not all media files can be loaded asynchronously.
There could be media handlers involved in
the movie that are not marked as thread-safe.
And they cannot therefore, be used on a background thread.
Now you can determine if async loading has failed.
And if it fails, what do you do?
Well it really depends on the needs of your application.
For instance, if you were just opening the movie
to grab a frame of it, to make a thumbnail image,
it may not be that important to you that you
want to tie up your main thread to do that.
So you may just put in some icon that you have stored away.
Or it really might be important for you to open that movie.
In which case, what you want to do
is retry initWithAttributes:error
but without the async required flag set.
So when async loading fails, you will
receive this QTMovieLoadStateError
as the load state in your notification handler.
And what do you do with that?
Well, we've added a new API in Snow
Leopard, the QTMovieLoadStateErrorAttribute,
that allows you to ask the movie what went wrong.
Previously, prior to Snow Leopard, you couldn't do that.
It was just a mystery why it failed.
Now you can actually ask the movie what caused you to fail.
And then you can look at that NSError, get the
domain, get the code, and perhaps react accordingly.
Or again, you may just want to retry it
without setting the open async required to YES.
So let's have a demo of this.
And again, I'll have Kevin come back up and
demonstrate why async loading is interesting.
>> This demo, I claim is the most
conceptually beautiful demo of all.
Because it's main feature is a call to sleep for 5 seconds.
I'm doing that in this demo in order to
simulate very sluggish loading of a movie.
For example, if you have a media resource in
the file system but it resides on a file server,
the access to which is very slow-- it
takes a while just to get a few bytes--
those are the cases on the QuickTime 7 path when loading
can be so sluggish that you risk blocking the main thread.
And it's specifically for those cases
that you want to use the attribute
that Tim has just been describing
QTMovieOpenAsyncRequiredAttribute,
set that to YES that cause all the work that
needs to be done even if it's extremely sluggish,
they pushed off into the background
and allows your UI to main responses.
So let us demonstrate what a non-responsive UI looks like.
I'll click the button and I can't pull down my menus and
the beach ball spins, this sends a message to our server
in Cupertino to register beach ball spinning.
No, it doesn't do that.
Imagine that it did though.
If you are a programmer, you want
to avoid that in your application.
How do you avoid the beach ball spinning?
Well you set async open required
when you initialize the QTMovie.
All the work will be pushed off to the background and
even if that work comprises a call to sleep for 5 seconds,
the UI will be able to responsive, the user
pulled down menus, progress indicators will run,
and then after 5 seconds you will
still get the movie to load.
So that's a good thing.
Remember though, when you use OpenAsyncRequired,
for some legacy cases,
it may fail for reasons that we'll
go in to a more depth later.
So have a fallback ready, thanks.
[ Applause ]
>> Thank you.
He learns.
Alright, so we've said that you must
monitor load states when you open a movie.
There is actually one case, to be
honest, where you don't really need to.
And that is when you don't care that
the movie is loaded asynchronously.
And a good example of this would be if you
have a command line tool, where there is no UI.
So there's no UI to block, you just don't care.
What you really want is a movie in its fullest
load state before you go on and work on it.
And this is what you would do.
You would set the OpenAsyncOKAttribute to NO.
Telling QTKit, "No, it isn't OK to load
this movie asynchronously in any way.
I just want to wait until it's loaded completely."
So now let's start of compare and contrast
this two similar sounding attributes.
To say OpenAsyncOK, that says "I want you to avoid blocking
the main thread, the thread I'm initializing this movie on."
By default, the value is YES.
That's the default behavior of QTMovie movie.
Now, work may or may not be actually done in a
background thread, if the media is not thread-safe,
then it will have to happen on
the foreground-- the main thread.
And it will not result in a failure to load
the movie if backgrounding is not possible.
It will just tie up your main thread more.
The new attribute that we're adding in Snow Leopard
will avoid blocking the initialization thread.
It's NO by default.
You have to opt in to this new behavior.
Work will be done in a background thread if it all possible.
And if it's not possible, we will fail and return the
error to you in the ways that I've already described.
So now, I'd like to have Kevin come back
up and actually drill down into some
of the suffix a little bit more
to perhaps clear up some issues.
>> Or to create issues if I may.
I didn't know what to call this part of a talk.
I'm going to drill down on a lot of things that Tim said,
so I just use the word usage notes but disregard that.
>> Let's instead use this fancier title, "A taxonomy of
Media Operations", that's the way to start your talk.
This in fact is not a complete taxonomy of media operations.
It's really just those media operations that we support
in QTKit, and make available to you as QTKit clients.
Obviously, you can playback media resources with QTKit.
We've talked mostly about that.
You can export media resources.
You can re-encode their audio and video and write
them to container formats using the export features.
You can edit them in place in QTKit, cut, copy, and
paste editing, insertions, deletions all supported.
You can also capture media from external
devices, cameras and what have you.
Now, Tim's already mentioned that some of these operations
are enhanced using QuickTime X technology in Snow Leopard.
Let me highlight those.
Playback is the one we've talked about most.
For enhanced playback in Snow Leopard, you want to opt
in via QTMovieOpenAsyncRequiredAttribute
as we've already discussed.
For enhanced export functionality in QTKit, there is nothing
that your application needs to do
beyond what it is already doing.
If you are calling QTMovieWriteToFile:attributes
and the attributes dictionary
that you provide specifies can export operation to
an Apple device format, that export will be enhanced
with QuickTime X technology and the primary benefit there
is greater efficiency, but there are others as well.
The media will be as often as possible and virtually
universally for these devices color tag appropriately
so that your color fidelity and accuracy regardless
of the destination will be the best possible.
Tim also mentioned that the capture
functionality of QTKit known cleverly
as QTKitCapture has also been enhanced with QuickTime X.
There is nothing that you need to do in your
application if you're capturing via QTKit.
To take advantage of this, it just
comes for free on Snow Leopard.
One of the advantages is that for 64-bit
applications that you're deploying on Snow Leopard,
you will get 64-bit native capture services.
Also, as often possible, the media that you
capture from devices will be appropriately tagged
with color profiling information, so again, you
get the best fidelity and accuracy we can offer.
The editing box is not enhanced with
QuickTime X technology in Snow Leopard.
So why did we do it the way we do it?
And why did we present these enhancements
to you in the form that we did?
Well, in order to explain that, let
me give you a little background.
Let me give you a little conceptual history.
Going back to the beginning of QuickTime, what
does QuickTime actually do with media resources?
You may know that all media resources would open with
QuickTime from 1.0 up through QuickTime 7 are represented
as a movie, a uniform representation of all media resources.
You might be aware of some of the constituent parts
of a movie, the tracks, the media of the tracks,
the sample descriptions, and the sample tables of the media.
For QuickTime 7 and the earlier releases, to operate
on media resources regardless of the operation
that it performs, any of those that I mentioned on my
previous slide, this movie representation must be created.
It can either be loaded from a file if it's a
QuickTime movie file or it must be created on the fly
when importing media from a different
format such as an MP3 file.
And in fact, when I was showing you earlier the
demo of opening an MP3 file with QuickTime 7,
all that work that was going on before any
operation was performed was the work required
to create the movie representation of the MP3 file.
MP3 was chosen for that demo because in fact that container
format contains just about the least information possible
in order for us to create a movie representation from it.
There's no information there about,
well there's seldom information there
about the number, the extent of the audio packets.
It's usually just a stream of audio packets in an MP3 file.
So we've gotta do some parsing
to create that representation.
That work is what we do implicitly in QuickTime 7
if you call the movie toolbox API, NewMovieFromFile
or NewMovieFromProperties or the QTKit method,
QTMovie initWithFile, QTMovie initWithURL.
By default, by creating that movie representation, we
are implicitly preparing that media resource for all
of the operations that you can perform on it.
You can play it back.
You can edit it in place.
You can export it because we have
this representation with all
of the powerful things that we can do with it implicitly.
However as you've seen, it's expensive
in some cases to prepare for all that.
So all these years when you've been opening MP3 files
with QuickTime, we have been laboriously preparing for you
to export those MP3 files to other formats.
Then you turn around and you just play them.
And we're left there thinking why did we do all that work?
We could have waited to parse those audio
packets until it's actually time to play them.
Well the good news is, with QuickTime
X, we have altered the design,
we've introduced into the model the declaration of intent.
What purpose are you opening this media resource for?
If you, the client, tell us the framework why you're
opening this thing, we can tailor the work that we do
to prepare it for the purpose that you declare.
And that's why, as Tim explained to you
earlier, QTMovieOpenForPlaybackAttribute.
You're declaring your intent.
You're leaving us off the hook for preparing that media
resource for operations beyond the scope of playback.
Now for backward compatibility, if
you say nothing about your intention,
about the purpose for which you're initializing a
QTMovie instance, we will do what we've done in the past
and implicitly prepare it for everything that we can do.
All the things that I mentioned at
the top of this portion of the talk.
But regardless, whether you declare your intention or not,
recall that time-based media has
fundamental operation that's progressive.
It's incremental.
These pieces of time-based media are
authored to be consumed overtime.
The video frame we're displaying
now is going to be replaced soon.
This is not the type of object as would be
the case with many other objects in Cocoa
for which we internalize all the
data at initialization time.
Operate on the data in memory and
then if something's changed,
write everything out, externalize it when you're done.
That's not what time-based media does.
We read incrementally.
We load incrementally, and that's
why as Tim described earlier,
these load states are fundamental to
the operation of time-based media.
And why? We introduced them with
QTKit when initially shipped on Tiger,
and we're still relying on the same loading model now.
So, for QuickTime X, something new at initialization time.
You declare your intent.
Subsequently, the incremental operation of the QTMovie
instance is the same that you remember from before.
The load states are exactly the same as
we've presented to you on Tiger and Leopard.
So I don't need to review all these since Tim
has done a good job of explaining what these are.
QTMovieLoadStatePlaythroughOK deserves special mention
because that particular state is unique for 2 reasons.
One, you can enter and also regress from that state.
What it essentially means is that when we
reach QTMovieLoadStatePlaythroughOK that means
that we're projecting through our finely tuned
algorithms that you can start playback and have it proceed
through the duration of the media
resource without having to wait,
having to pause for more data to arrive before proceeding.
However, if network conditions change
or it's just a bad day, there--
it might happen that data starts loading
more slowly than it had been up to that point
and the QTMovie instance may regress
to QTMovieLoadStatePlayable.
If that happens and if the playback has to stall
because more media needs to load before we can proceed,
that will just happen automatically
and playback will resume automatically
at the same rate without any intervention on your part.
You can derail that process if you like by
setting the rate of that instance of QTMovie to 0
and then automatic playback won't resume.
But the behavior for resumption is automatic,
if you don't otherwise change things.
QTMovieLoadStateComplete also has very specific,
very special meaning that's directly relevant
to our QuickTime X story, so we'll
get back to that in a minute.
But suppose you're an application
that just wants to play media.
Tim talked about load states, and if that didn't
go on long enough, Kevin talked about load states.
Why do I need to know these load
states, I just fill out tax forms.
I was going to say, I just showed how
to use the track pad but I don't know.
Anyway, there is a method on QTMovie that you can use
that doesn't require that you monitor all these progress.
You can get QTKit to do that monitoring for you.
The method is called autoplay.
So you would set up your code like this if you just want to
play when it-- the movie reaches the playthrough OK state.
Initialize the movie, you can immediately put it into a view
regardless of its state if you like and then say autoplay.
And the result of that is that the movie will
play as soon as it's ready and that will work
on the QuickTime 7 path or the
QuickTime X path equally well.
I should note, however, that if you do choose to put a movie
into a view before it has reached the loaded
state, that QTMovie view will draw nothing.
So if you want to avoid big holes in your UI such
as what I demonstrated when I first came up here
with my first demo application, you can wait until the
movie reaches the loaded state before showing your view,
or alternately before setting the movie on to the view.
>> Alright, QTMovieLoadStateComplete, it's special.
What does it mean?
And what happens to it when I opt in for QuickTime X
playback by setting QTMovieOpenForPlaybackAttribute.
Let's say what-- let's just describe what this thing is.
Essentially, when a movie reaches
QTMovieLoadStateComplete, we have what I described earlier
as the uniform representation that QuickTime
7 uses for all media resources, the movie.
The MP3 file that I opened earlier when that, the
controller bar filled in all the way to the right
and we reached load state complete, well we've
got the compete movie that will locate all
of the audio packets within that
half a gigabyte of MP3 data.
So at that stage, it's safe for your
application to call movie format representation.
The method on QTMovie that allows
you to fetch the externalizable form
of this uniform movie representation,
then you can write back to storage.
But QTMovieLoadStateCompete also implies
that all of the media data required
by that movie is either immediately
available because it's in the file system
or some other immediately accessible storage.
Or it has been transferred via a
network protocol and completely cached,
so it's all available at that point as well.
So since all the media data is completely
available as well, at that point you can call method
such as writeToFile in order to perform an export operation.
All the media data is there for you to re-encode or whatever
you're trying to do via your right to file operation.
Now, note that both the use of the movie representation
and the caching behavior are unique to QuickTime 7.
In other words, QTMovieLoadStateComplete implies
behavior that is very QuickTime 7 like and does not apply
to QuickTime X for which we don't always have a movie
representation and which does not sign a contract
that requires it to cache all of
the media data and retain it
in it's cache throughout the duration
of that instance of QTMovie.
So, what happens to QTMovieLoadStateComplete when
you say QTMovieOpenForPlaybackAttribute is YES?
Essentially what we're going to do is
not signal that we've reached that state
And there's no need for us to signal it because you've
already declared my intention is only to play this instance
of QTMovie, we will tell you when it's playable,
we will tell you when playthrough is OK.
We'll even do that work for you if you say autoplay.
There's no need for it to enter any state beyond
that because your intention is only playback.
Well, that's a restriction, that's a change of behavior.
I opted in to this new-- this new
feature, QuickTime X playback,
and something is unavailable, QTMovieLoadStateComplete.
I would be remiss if I didn't list all of those things
that are not available when you opt in for this feature
that enables the more efficient playback of QuickTime X.
So let's go through all of the usage restrictions.
When you say playback, we help you to
enforce the contract that you have signed.
The instance of QTMovie that's intended
for playback is allowed only to play back.
No editing will be available, nor is it required
since you declared your intention of playback.
Saving is not available, write to file.
Archiving is not available.
Instead of archiving in the QTMovie instance, we recommend
that you archive either the dictionary attributes
that you initialize a QTMovie with or selected attributes of
the QTMovie instance at the time of archiving that you want
to have on archive when you want to create another
QTMovie instance from the same media resource.
Export is not available when you opt in for playback,
and there is no access to the QuickTime 7 primitive
such as capital M Movie or capital T Track.
How do we enforce these restrictions?
Very simply, if you attempt to call any of the methods that
are not allowed, when you opt in for playback or if you try
to access the attributes that are not available, in
that case, we raise a very particular NSException,
with a name that's so long, you can't miss it.
QTDisallowedForInitializationPurposeException,
you declared your intent it's for playback.
Then you try to do something beyond the
scope of playback, we raise the exception.
And we do that in order to help you to
find those places in your application
where your usage might move beyond
the contract that you've entered.
So in order to demonstrate a case like this, I took
an application, a sample application that we have
on the Apple developer connection site called QTKit Player.
And this is an application that we've been
providing since 2004 that demonstrates basic usage
of QTKit for playing back media resources.
So I've started with this and only
made some very small changes here.
For one thing, I took Tim's recommendation
from earlier in this talk.
I actually heard this talk sooner than you
did, so I was able to apply what Tim said.
And I have moved from using movieWithFile which is
what the source, if you download it from the web,
will use and I'm using movieWithAttributes instead.
And in the attributes dictionary,
I am setting the path of the file
that I want open using the key QTMovieFilenameAttribute
and I'm also setting open for playback to be YES,
because I want my playback to be enhanced with QuickTime X.
There's one other thing I did to this application as well.
I took the advice of an O'Reilly article that demonstrates
the methodology for catching uncaught NSExceptions.
And why did I do this?
Because I want to break in the debugger whenever anything
is attempted by this application that goes beyond the scope
of the APIs that are available when you
say that the movies open for playback.
So I wrote this little, following the O'Reilly advice,
I wrote a little function called catch some exceptions
and I'm looking for my lengthily named
QTDisallowedInitializationPurposeException
because I want to know why that happened.
And I'm also going to log to the console the
reason that this happened because we provide,
when we raised these exceptions, some very
particular information that will be useful to you
for debugging why did this exception get raised.
So, let me build and debug this application,
QTKit player with these modest improvements,
and let me attempt to open a media
resource for playback in that application.
Well, I hit my breakpoint.
I had the
QTMovieDisallowedForInitializationPurposeException.
Let me show the debugger and the console.
I'll clear the console.
Let me step over this line that will log what happen and it
says to me, well, I tried to query the QTMovie attribute,
QTMovieCurrentSizeAttribute which is not allowed
when I set QTMovieOpenForPlayback to YES.
Tim mentioned earlier that this particular attribute,
QTMovieCurrentSizeAttribute is deprecated
in Snow Leopard, and that's true.
If your application is using it,
it will still function as defined.
But when you opt in via the QTMovieOpenForPlaybackAttribute
for the new playback set, we don't
allow this attribute at all.
We're going to encourage you as you make the modifications
to your application to adopt the different attribute
that we're recommending that you
use, QTMovieNaturalSizeAttribute.
So, I will look for preview of coming attraction,
QTMovieCurrentSizeAttribute, and I will simply change
that to QTMovieNaturalSizeAttribute
where it occurs, alright.
Is it possible to edit source code
live on stage in San Francisco?
I will rebuild and relaunch the
application now with that modification.
I'll try to open a media resource again, see what trouble
I run into, and I hit the breakpoint another time.
Let me display the console and the debugger, step
over that line that logs the reason to the console.
This time it says "oh, I tried
to set the editable attribute."
Well the person writing this application
actually was very ambitious.
He not only wanted to display the use-- to provide
an exemplar, the use of QTKit for playback,
he moved beyond it and added some editing features as well.
He wanted to set the QTMovies to be editable.
Well, that's not allowed when I
say QTMovieOpenForPlayback is yes.
So I'll look for where that occurs, and just for the
purpose of demos, I will simply comment that out,
build a debug again, relaunch the application
and with those two changes I'm now able
to open media resources [applause]
and take advantage of QuickTime X.
Now I realize that hitting breakpoints in debugger
is not the most interesting demo in the world.
But since you have code, you have code
that might be as long as 5 years old now.
That might have been worked on
by other developers in the past.
You might be interested in the methodology
like this for finding those places in your code
that you might need to modify as you opt in for QuickTime X.
So, let's summarize your transition.
If you have code like that and you want to take
advantage of QuickTime X on Snow Leopard, what do you do?
Well first thing, tell us what you want to
do and we'll help you help us to help you.
>> Tell us that you want to open
something else for something for playback
and we will tell you the work we do for your intention.
It will be more efficient in a lot of cases.
And you do that by means of the attribute that
Tim described, QTMovieOpenForPlaybackAttribute.
If the media resource that you're opening is openable
by QuickTime X, you will get QuickTime X in support
of that instance of QTMovie for playback.
Then, another thing that you must do before you ship your
application that you're modifying for this purpose is
to uncover any possible usage in
that app that goes beyond playback,
that enters into this restricted areas
when you declare open for playback.
You can find those by reviewing the documentation, the
Snow Leopard documentation that we provided to you along
with the version of Snow Leopard
you have calls out which methods
and attributes are restricted when you open for playback.
As Tim showed you earlier, the QTKit headers, QTMovie.h
and the others will also call out the restrictions.
So take a look at those, you can watch where the--
this particular exception which gives you
some diagnostic information when it's raised
about what it is the app was trying
to do when this exception was raised.
And by the way, one of my colleagues asked me for the demo,
why didn't I just break on Objective-C exception throw?
Well, I didn't think of it.
No, actually what I wanted to do is to demonstrate a
methodology that will allow you to run your own custom code
when this particular exception is raised so that you
can log a bug automatically or send yourself emails,
and you better look at this particular part of the app.
But of course, just breaking on
that other thing will work too.
Now, if you happen to uncover any usage of this sort
that goes beyond playback, you have a choice to make.
You can decide to modify your application not to require
the additional behavior that goes beyond playback.
That instance of QTMovie, well it's fine if it
only plays back whatever it happened to be doing
that goes beyond playback or perhaps that feature
isn't actually needed, or perhaps what I can do
in my application is to create a different instance
of QTMovie from the same media resource and perform
that nonplayback operation on that
other instance, your choice.
However, you may have an application
which simply requires a broader set
of features then just playback for an instance of QTMovie.
In that case, you simply wouldn't declare that that instance
is open for playback and you would enjoy the same support
that we've given you in prior releases of Mac OS X.
Now, we've told you some of the benefits,
now we've outlined the entire cost,
work that you will need to do to
transition your application.
Let's close this whole section of
the talk with additional benefits.
What do you get when you do this work to opt
in using QTMovieOpenForPlaybackAttribute?
Well, to review some of the things Tim mentioned
earlier, the QuickTime X services are 64-bit native.
So when you deploy your 64-bit application that
plays media you want 64-bit native playback services,
that's how you get them in QTKit file, this attribute.
Further, QuickTime X takes advantage of
multicore so you want things to make,
take advantage of the cores that
are available on the hardware.
That happens too when you opt in.
Color fidelity is improved when you opt in for QuickTime X.
More details about color management on Snow Leopard
in general are in Session 301 which occurs on Friday.
The particulars of color management
for video will be covered there.
So go to that session for more details about color fidelity.
You will also get, in your application, the services of the
hardware code that Tim Bens [phonetic] mentioned yesterday
in the Graphics and Media State of the Union.
You want hardware accelerated H.264 decode,
tell me how to get it, we already have.
You opt in using QTKit via QTMovieOpenForPlayback.
Now some notes about the hardware decoder.
This is available in various recent
models of hardware that Apple has shipped.
The hardware decoder has a limited number of sessions,
video session that can support simultaneously.
The number is not always one but it's small.
If you want to guarantee or if you want to improve your
chances of getting the services of the hardware decoder
for the H.264 video content that you are playing your
applications, you can use the QTMovie methods setActive.
If you set a movie to be inactive via setActive:
NO what you've essentially done is to say,
I don't need this to be prepared for rendering right now, I
wanted to initialize it because it will eventually be used
by my document or whatever it is that you're doing.
But I don't need to render it now, it's not on screen,
it's not on the current slide, for example, in keynote,
I'll set it to be active later and only when I need to
render it will I do that by having just a small number
of QTMovie instances active at a time, only those that
you happen to be rendering, you increase the chances
of getting the services of the hardware decoder.
Also, you may have gone to the Graphics and Media
State of the Union and seen some iPhone apps
for iPhone OS 3.0 that are displaying HTTP Live Streams.
They look great and this whole story for
setting up these streams is really good.
More details about that in Session
313 and that's tomorrow morning.
But suppose you have a desktop application and
you want it to be able to play HTTP Live Streams,
that's available to you also in Snow Leopard
via the same means that we've already described.
You present the URL for one of these HTTP Live
Streams to QTMovie in the attributes dictionary.
You say QTMovie URL attribute, and you
give it the URL for an HTTP Live Stream,
and you also say QTMovieOpenForPlayback attribute is
YES and the Live Stream will play in your application.
Alright. So that goes over in detail
enhancements of QTKit in Snow Leopard.
But suppose your application is already a media-rich
application and you're performing a number of operations,
for example you're performing exports on
background threads, you're doing a lot of stuff,
and you want to know how these new features
and these new recommendations pertain to you.
Well, the answer is that all of the existing
recommendations for use of QTKit in rich-media applications
that perform operations such as export on
background threads, those are still pertinent.
Everything that we've told you still applies and
it's not changed in anyway by these new features.
The tech note 2125, I'll wait !%while you
look that up and read the previous 2124,
but probably not, I've done it, just a few minutes left.
Thread-safe Programming in QuickTime,
that tech note has a section that talks
about QTKit usage for multithreaded applications.
Those recommendations include something that Tim
mentioned earlier, QTMovie should always be initialized
on the main thread, allocate and
initialize QTMovie on the main thread.
In Snow Leopard, you can also improve the responsiveness
of your application via the attribute
Tim mentioned earlier OpenAsyncRequired.
Then if you need to perform an operation on that instance of
QTMovie on the background thread, you can migrate that movie
on a background thread which essentially means that you
intend to message that movie and you expect notifications
from that movie to be posted on the background thread.
There are several steps that need
to be performed in order to do that.
On the background thread on which you want to operate
on the QTMovie, the first thing you must do is
to invoke the class method enterQTKitOnThread.
What does this do?
This tells the underlying media stack that you intend
to operate on media on this preemptive background thread
and you're signaling the media stack to maintain
independent state for that thread and not to interact
with its state for the main thread or other threads.
In other words, you're telling the media
stack to operate in a thread-safe manner.
This is essential.
Some of the components that are required
for certain media resources, image decoders,
audio decoders are not marked as thread-safe.
Many of third party ones over the years have
been marked as thread-safe, some are still not.
You must do this in order to ensure that
only those that are prepared to operate
on background preemptive threads are allowed to operate.
Then once you've prepared your thread for media
operation via the class method I've mentioned,
detach the instance of QTMoive from its initialization
thread by calling -detachFromCurrentThread on that thread,
then with that same instances of
QTMovie, call -attachToCurrentThread
on the thread on which you intend to operate on it.
Now note that some components are not marked
as thread-safe especially some legacy ones,
so you need to be prepared for
-detachFromCurrentThread to fail.
This is similar in many ways to the cases that Tim
mentioned earlier when QTMovieOpenAsyncRequired may fail
because the components required for the movie are
not prepared to operate on a background thread.
So if that happens, you need to have a fallback ready.
Either you need to perform the operation on
the main thread or you need to signal the user
that this operation is not available
for that particular instance of QTMovie.
The tech note I mentioned covers all this in
detail, so review that for more information.
A particular point that is not brought up by the
tech notes is this about multithreaded operations.
Well what about if I just want to play the movie back?
Something that you may not know that we'll call it
explicitly here is that only QTMovies that are initialized
on the main thread and remain attached to
the main thread are eligible for playback.
So you would not perform any of these
thread migration if you wish just to play.
>> Now this restriction that only QTMovies attached to the
main thread can play is not new, it's been true since day 1.
And it's appropriate as well because the playback
of the QTMovie involves user presentation.
And often occurs together with UI state changes.
So it's appropriate for you to message the movie about
things you want to do, change its rate, for example,
and for it to notify you of state changes on the main thread
where your code is going to interact with other UI elements.
This restriction is true regardless of whether
QuickTime 7 or QuickTime X is used for playback.
Now several times we've mentioned
multithreaded applications and components
that are not thread-safe, we want to make this better.
We want to make the experience of media
types that are supported by third parties
as rich and safe as possible on Mac OS X.
So let me go through some notes for component developers
for those of you out there who implement support
for media formats on QuickTime X
that it doesn't support natively.
You say I want to be part of the media system, and many
of you already know that QuickTime 7 has published APIs
and has described component types that allow
you to add support for new types of media
to the system, these come in various flavors.
If you want to add support for new video types, you can
write an image decoder, an image encoder if you want
to encode that video format on the system.
Similarly for audio, there are encoding
components and decoding components you can provide.
Also if you have a media container format
that you want to add support for to Mac OS X,
you would write what's known as a movie import component.
And the job of that movie import component, by the
way, to harken back to an earlier part of our talk,
is to create a movie representation of the media
resource in that container format that you support.
You can, beyond that, add additional support for new
container format by allowing applications to write media
to that container format, in order to do that, you
would write what's known as a movie export component.
But the question is, in our history, how
quickly, how immediately do we provide support
for all of this extensibility to QuickTime 7?
And the answer is, and this surprised actually someone a
long time member of the QuickTime team just the other day,
only image encoders and decoders were actually
available to the public, to third party developers,
when QuickTime 1.0 shipped in 1991, and the
reason for this is that extensibility is something
that needs to be worked out in great detail.
How do we support add-on modules, how do we make
them work well when they're added to the system.
What do we want to do in the future now that we're
facing this same set of requirements for QuickTime X?
We do want that system to be extensible.
And further since 1991 the first time that we did this,
we've gained a tremendous amount of respect for the need
of security when code modules are added to the system.
But how do we do that for QuickTime
X and make that extensible?
We're working on it.
QuickTime X and Snow Leopard is
the start of this new media stack,
this start of this new set of service
with greater efficiency.
For Snow Leopard, we, we're not saying
anything now about plug-in modules,
it's something to look forward to in the future.
In the mean time, we are very interested in your feedback
for what kinds of things you want to do in QuickTime X.
So for now, the extensibility API remains the QuickTime 7
API and the component types that we've mentioned earlier.
But that's the way to extend the media system with new
types for Snow Leopard as well as for earlier releases
of Mac OS X, let's make them as good as possible.
Let's make them as thread-safe as they can possibly be.
The thread-safety of these components is now going
to be exercised as never before on Snow Leopard
as QTKit clients opt in to use openAsyncRequired.
Because what's going on under the hood when
an application such as your says I want to--
I want to require asynchronous loading for this
instance of QTMovie, is that QTKit when it's
on the QuickTime 7 path is going to call
NewMovieFromProperties on a background thread
which will require that all of the components
needed for that movie be marked as thread-safe.
Therefore if you're supplying components for
QuickTime 7, media import components and so forth,
their thread-safety is going to be
tested as never before in Snow Leopard.
Now if you wish to make your components thread-safe, the
tech note that I mentioned earlier, 2125, it's kind of long,
it's got a lot of information in it, also has tips for
QuickTime 7 component developers, some general information
about how to make those add-on modules
thread-safe, how to mark them as such,
and how to ensure that they are in fact safe.
But there are particular guidelines for movie
import components that I want to highlight
that are not called out in the tech note.
Over the years and in fact recently since we've
implemented QTMovieOpenAsyncRequiredAttribute,
we have found that third parties have
marked some components as thread-safe
but are doing some things that are actually dangerous.
A very strong recommendation, I can't make it more
strongly, is that if your component is operating
on a background thread, please
do not display user interface.
Some movie import components want to display
a loading progress or something like that.
Any display of UI when attempted from a background
thread can crash and that's a poor user experience.
So don't do that.
When your movie import component is open, note the thread on
which it's running, if it's Cocoa-based you can use NSThread
or you can use the pthreads package and call pthreadMain
to find out if you're running on the main thread,
and if that's the case, it's safe
for you to display UI, otherwise no.
Further if you're writing a movie import component, you are
responsible for ensuring that all of the components required
for the movie that you're building, the
movie representation that we discuss earlier
that the movie import component builds, all the
components, the media handlers, the video decoders,
the audio decoders, they must be thread-safe also.
If not, you must fail in a particular way in
order to signal the client to retry the operation
without requiring operation on a background thread.
Note that as you're doing a survey of the components that
are required for the media formats that are contained
in the media resource that you're attempting to load,
that Sound Manager components are never thread-safe.
So if the only decoder available for sound format is
a Sound Manager sdec component, it's not thread-safe.
And you must fail if you're trying to
create this on the background thread.
Instead in order to provide thread-safety
for audio decoding,
you must provide a core audio compliant
audio decoder and that can be thread-safe.
And in fact, the ones supplied by Apple all are.
Now I mentioned earlier that you must fail in a
particular way to signal the client of what went wrong.
What you want to do when trying to import a media
resource, return the result from say NewMovieFromDataRef,
you want to set the error to the OS status to
componentNotThreadSafeError and this will signal
that the whole thing ought to be retried
without reliance on the thread-safety
which is not available for this media resource.
OK. So that covers the enhancements to QTKit.
It also covers some of the things that you can do in
your code to gain the benefit of these enhancements
and even some things that third parties can do to
make experience of media even better on QuickTime X.
Tim has some summary of all this for you, even now.
[ Applause ]
>> Well there really isn't much of a summary
If you want to opt in to QuickTime X path,
use special initialization attributes
to request these new features.
There are really just 2 of them, there's the
OpenForPlaybackAttribute and the OpenAsyncRequiredAttribute.
Let me point you to some other sessions
that should be of interest to you,
Kevin has already pointed to several of these.
For Color Management, Friday morning in this room,
they will discuss color management in Snow Leopard.
The HTTP Live Streaming will be tomorrow in the morning.
And also the Sophisticated Media Playback through
Open Web Standards should be interesting to you
and that will also be tomorrow in the afternoon.
We will also be available in the Labs.
The QTKit Lab will be this afternoon and
there should be a good number of QTKit
and QuickTime engineers there who can answer your questions.
And if you have particular questions
about HTTP Live Streaming,
then that Lab will be Wednesday afternoon also at 3:30.
So thanks for coming.
If you have particular questions, you contact our
Evangelist, Allan Schaffer, and I certainly want you
to look at the documentation and sample code.
So thanks for coming and I hoped you enjoyed it.